# Manage clusters

ob-operator defines the following custom resource definitions (CRDs) based on the deployment mode of OceanBase clusters:

* `obclusters.oceanbase.oceanbase.com` defines OceanBase clusters. You can define OceanBase clusters and perform cluster O&M tasks by modifying this resource definition.
* `obzones.oceanbase.oceanbase.com` defines a specific zone and is used for O&M of the zone. Generally, you do not need to modify this resource definition. ob-operator automatically maintains this resource definition.
* `observers.oceanbase.oceanbase.com` defines a specific OBServer node and is used for O&M of the OBServer node. Generally, you do not need to modify this resource definition. ob-operator automatically maintains this resource definition.
* `obparameters.oceanbase.oceanbase.com` defines parameters of OceanBase Database and is used for O&M of parameters. Generally, you do not need to modify this resource definition. ob-operator automatically maintains this resource definition.

You can implement the O&M of OceanBase clusters by creating or modifying `obparameters.oceanbase.oceanbase.com`. For example, you can perform the following O&M tasks:

* [Create a cluster](200.create-cluster.md)
* [Add zones to a cluster](./300.zone-management/100.add-zone.md)
* [Delete zones from a cluster](./300.zone-management/200.delete-zone.md)
* [Add OBServer nodes to zones](./400.server-management/100.add-server.md)
* [Delete OBServer nodes from zones](./400.server-management/200.delete-server.md)
* [Upgrade a cluster](500.upgrade-cluster-of-ob-operator.md)
* [Manage parameters](600.parameter-management.md)
* [Delete a cluster](700.delete-cluster.md)
